Coronavirus lockdown: Are the five tests being met?
After Easter, when the government announced lockdown was to continue for another three weeks, it set out five tests that had to be met before restrictions were eased.
But with growing evidence we are over peak, how close are we to meeting those five tests? And what else needs to be done?
It has been clear for a number of weeks that the health service is in a good position to cope.
In the first half of April, NHS Providers, which represents hospitals, was saying it was "increasingly confident" the NHS had capacity needed.
This is because of the work done to free beds in hospitals - about a third of the 100,000 plus beds across the UK were emptied as routine work was cancelled and community services agreed to take care of patients recovering in hospital.
Alongside this, operating theatres and recovery rooms were transformed into intensive care wards and new ventilators bought or borrowed from private hospitals, doubling capacity.
This has, of course, come at a cost, with growing numbers of people left waiting for routine treatments, such as knee and hip replacements, while some cancer services have also been affected.
But it has stopped the NHS becoming overwhelmed by the virus, as happened in parts of Italy.
The NHS has not run out of beds - either on general wards or in intensive care - at any point.
And the numbers in hospital are now falling, with thousands of beds available to treat patients if need be.
For the past few weeks it has looked like the number of deaths in hospital might be slowing, but it has been hard to call, from the daily figures released by government.
However, a new analysis now suggests the peak may have been passed in the second week of April.
The daily figures released by government represent when deaths are recorded, not when they happened.
Some happened weeks before they were announced.
NHS England has started compiling deaths by the date on which they happened. 
A clear trend emerges. The peak - in England at least - seems to have happened on 8 April, experts say.
Statistician Prof David Spiegelhalter, from the University of Cambridge, said we should expect the downward trend to be slow, but he was confident it was the direction of travel.
This is a trickier one to call because there is limited testing outside hospitals at the moment.
Only key workers, health staff and care home residents were being tested up until late April.
So that means ministers are having to rely on the numbers being admitted to hospital with coronavirus as a guide and estimate the amount of infection in the wider population from that.
When it comes to measuring the rate of infection, scientists refer to something called the R0 number. This is a measure of how many people on average an infected person is passing the virus to.
Without any social distancing measures, the average person would infect between two and three people. 
Chief scientific adviser Sir Patrick Vallance said he thought the R0 number was down to one, but he wanted it well below one to meet the definition of manageable levels.
Germany started easing restrictions when it got it down to 0.7.
Currently the UK has capacity to carry out more than 50,000 tests a day, although the most that has been done is 37,000.
That's partly because the drive-through testing centres are not always in convenient locations for everyone and also some teething problems with the way the process works.
To combat this, the government is rolling out mobile testing units run by the military and sending out home-testing kits.
The government's target is to be able to do 100,000 tests a day by the end of the month. 
Staff - in hospitals, care homes and, to a lesser extent, other public services - will also need personal protective equipment (PPE) if they are to cope with any rises in cases or at least a sustained stream.
It is pretty obvious that PPE remains a problem. 
The British Medical Association is still warning its members are "frightened" by the lack of equipment and having to face difficult decisions over whether to continue treating patients.
The pinch-point for hospitals is gowns. The UK only has one manufacturer and therefore is having to do its best to secure supplies from abroad in an international marketplace where there is huge demand. 
The government says a deal has been struck with China to supply 25 million gowns, but it is unclear exactly when these will be delivered. 
Outside of hospital, the distribution network is still not sufficiently robust to deliver supplies to care homes and other settings quickly enough.
The Army has been brought in to help.
And Health Secretary Matt Hancock says everyone involved is working "day and night".
But as yet this issue is far from resolved.
Without a vaccine, this will be a very tricky one to navigate. 
As mentioned above, it will need widespread community testing to help contain any outbreaks.
But the government is also exploring the feasibility of using an app to log the close contacts of anyone who tests positive.
And 18,000 contact tracers are being recruited.
Council staff staff such as environmental health officer and sexual-health nurses may be used.
This test also requires the government to give itself some wriggle room to respond if infection rates start climbing, which is why Sir Patrick is aiming for an R0 number of well below one.
Giving themselves a window to react will allow government officials to tighten social distancing rules again if needed before a second peak hits and capacity in the NHS is threatened.
One advantage the UK has is that countries such as Germany and Austria have started relaxing their restrictions. 
Officials will be closely monitoring those countries to see what happens. It will take several weeks before the impact will be known.
Based on the five tests, it is clear we are not in a position to ease the lockdown. 
The biggest hurdles seem to be the two issues the government is receiving most criticism for - testing and PPE.
Until they are resolved, it seems hard to see how the situation can change.