How To Get The Secret ‘Objective Failed’ Ending In ‘Gears 5’
Ever since Gears 5 was released in early September, it’s been stunning critics and fans alike with its astounding graphics, compelling characters, and rich storytelling. Well, it looks like the developers at The Coalition have a few more tricks up their sleeves, because OGN just stumbled onto a secret, alternate ending to the story of the Delta Squad! This is definitely something Gears fans are going to want to check out.
So, how exactly do you access this incredible Gears easter egg? Well, it’s a little tricky, but once you get the hang of it, you’ll be able to return again and again.
After the opening moments of the game, you’ll be able to enter an abandoned research facility. Now, wait until the floor begins giving way beneath you. At this point, you’ll be tempted to keep to the right to avoid falling into an enormous pit. But instead of doing that, quickly move your controller to the left so you fall directly into the hole. If you’ve done this correctly, the screen should start to turn red and a skull will appear. This means you’ve accessed the secret ending!
From here on out, just sit back and enjoy as the screen fades out and reveals the hidden message, “Objective Failed.” And as if this isn’t cool enough, accessing the secret ending lets you unlock several powerful abilities, including “Reload Current Checkpoint” and “Return To Lobby.”
If you’ve already made it past this point in the single-player campaign, don’t worry. Programmers cleverly left multiple pathways to the secret ending, so you should be able to access it by simply getting blown up or running into the line of fire of a Swarm horde.
Pretty cool, huh? We here at OGN are also digging into Gears rumors about a “Disc Cannot Be Read Error” easter egg that’s accessible just by your rubbing some sandpaper on the bottom of your copy of the game, but so far, we haven’t been able to put them to test. So for now, check this one out. We guarantee you aren’t going to regret seeing this intriguing new twist on the ultimate fate of Kait Diaz and the rest of her squad.