Are ethnic minorities being hit hardest by coronavirus?
The UK government has announced a review into the impact that coronavirus is having on ethnic minorities. 
This comes after statistics, from the UK and overseas, have appeared to show that the virus has a disproportionately large impact on people from ethnic minority backgrounds. 
The prime minister's spokesman told journalists that the available evidence will now be formally reviewed by officials from Public Health England. 
Professor Chris Whitty, the Chief Medical Officer for England, was asked about the review at a Downing Street press briefing, and said: "It's absolutely critical that we find out which groups are most at risk so that we can help to protect them."
But Prof Whitty also added that there is currently no conclusive evidence to show that coronavirus poses a bigger risk to people from ethnic minority backgrounds. He said: "This is not yet clear in terms of ethnic minorities and we need to look at this more carefully."
Unlike in some US states, both the overall number of confirmed coronavirus cases and deaths in the UK are not currently broken down by ethnicity. 
But there is some evidence to suggest that coronavirus is having a disproportionate impact on people from ethnic minority backgrounds. 
Data from the Intensive Care National Audit and Research Centre (ICNARC) suggests that 34% of critically ill coronavirus patients are from black or minority ethnic backgrounds. 
The research is based on 3,300 patients from intensive care units across England, Wales and Northern Ireland. 
According to the 2011 Census, 14% of the population in England and Wales was from black and minority backgrounds.
Prof Kamlesh Khunti, from the University of Leicester and the Centre for BME Health, says: "A lot of people have been concerned about this issue based on anecdotal reports and now this data is showing a signal regarding a higher number of black and minority ethnic populations being admitted to intensive care units."
But this data is just a first step in understanding the issue, he warns, with more research and analysis needed. 
Since the outbreak took hold in the UK, coronavirus cases have been concentrated in London - the top ten worst affected areas in England are located there, once we account for population. 
Brent, for example, has had 250 cases for every 100,000 people in the borough - the highest in the country. 
The borough also has the second highest percentage of individuals from black and minority ethnic backgrounds. 
As a whole, 40% of people living in London are from ethnic minority backgrounds.
But there are other reasons that could play a role, according to Prof Khunti.
"These include BME populations coming from lower socioeconomic backgrounds, having [public-facing] occupations, different cultural beliefs and behaviours or being at high risk in view of their increased risk of certain diseases such as diabetes and heart disease."
Self-isolation in larger households could be difficult, for example. 
Just under a third of Bangladeshi households are classified overcrowded, as are 15% of black African households, according to government statistics. 
Only 2% of white British households are classified as overcrowded. 
Black and other ethnic minority individuals make up a large share of jobs considered essential in tackling the virus. 
One in five people working for the NHS in England, for example, is from an ethnic minority background, however these numbers are even higher when we look solely at doctors and nurses. 
A number of doctors and nurses who have died in the UK were from immigrant backgrounds. 
Some stark evidence in this area has come out of particular states in the US. 
For example, in Chicago, the city reported that 70% of coronavirus victims were black, despite representing only a third of the population. 
Similar reports have emerged from New York, Detroit and New Orleans.
This article was first published on 8 April and has been updated to reflect new figures from the ICNARC.
Read more from Reality Check
Send us your questions
Follow us on Twitter
Staff and residents of care homes in England, and over-65s, can now be tested, the health secretary says.