Jennie-O Turkey pauses operations at another Minnesota plant to mitigate coronavirus spread
FOX Business' Blake Burman says President Trump will be invoking the Defense Production Act to ensure meat processors stay open during the coronavirus pandemic. 
Continue Reading Below
"Our number one priority is the health, well-being and safety of our team members. That is why, out of an abundance of caution, we have decided to take a pause in operations at this location," said Jennie-O Turkey Store president Steve Lykken. "We continue to be thoughtful and considerate during this process as we work with health and safety consultants who are experts in mitigation strategies for COVID-19."
One of the Jennie-O Turkey facilities in Willmar, Minnesota that was closed last week after some employees tested positive for coronavirus. (Google Maps)
The company says it is currently working with local and state health officials on coronavirus testing for its team members in an effort to provide additional safety. Jennie-O is also working with experts at the Mayo Clinic and other health institutions to provide its team members with the most updated information about the virus.
"We will continue to work with these outside experts as we develop our plan for reopening when the time is appropriate," Lykken added. "During this pause, we will continue our robust food processing sanitation practices, as well as the enhanced procedures that we have been using since the emergence of COVID-19. The facility will be deep cleaned, including all common areas and high-touch surfaces."
The company's safety measures include wellness screenings, masks, and personal protective equipment for employees and enhanced safety and sanitation protocols throughout its facilities.
"Our nation’s meat and poultry processing facilities play an integral role in the continuity of our food supply chain. Maintaining the health and safety of these heroic employees in order to ensure that these critical facilities can continue operating is paramount," Perdue said. "I also want to thank the companies who are doing their best to keep their workforce safe as well as keeping our food supply sustained. USDA will continue to work with its partners across the federal government to ensure employee safety to maintain this essential industry.”
Hormel Foods stock closed at $47.76 per share during Tuesday's trading session, up more than 2 percent.