Felicity Huffman's daughter admitted to college after retaking SATs
Former Deputy Assistant Attorney General Tom Dupree says the judge wanted to send a message when it comes to Felicity's Huffman's sentence.
Continue Reading Below
Macy, the daughter of Huffman and "Fargo" actor William H. Macy, was an unknowing participant in the sweeping college admissions scandal.
Authorities said Huffman paid a designated person $15,000 to proctor Sophia Macy s exam in December 2017, then change her answers to improve the score.
LOS ANGELES, CA - JANUARY 06: (L-R) Georgia Macy, Sophia Macy, William H. Macy, and Felicity Huffman attend the 76th Annual Golden Globe Awards on January 6, 2019, in Los Angeles, California. (Photo by Stefanie Keenan/Getty Images for FIJI Water)
Huffman was arrested in March 2019 and pleaded guilty in May to charges of conspiracy to commit mail fraud and honest services mail fraud.
In a letter to the judge before her September 2019 sentencing, Huffman wrote that she acted out of "desperation to be a good mother."
"I talked myself into believing that all I was doing was giving my daughter a fair shot,  she wrote.  I see the irony in that statement now because what I have done is the opposite of fair. I have broken the law, deceived the educational community, betrayed my daughter, and failed my family. 
Huffman was sentenced to 14 days behind bars and was freed after serving 11.
After the judge handed down the order, she released a public statement reiterating her apologies to her daughter, the rest of her family and the academic community.
"And I especially want to apologize to the students who work hard every day to get into college," she said, "and to their parents who make tremendous sacrifices supporting their children."
Huffman was one of more than 50 people who were charged in the investigation, dubbed "Varsity Blues." Other parents embroiled in the scandal include "Full House" actress Lori Loughlin, her fashion-designer husband, Mossimo Giannulli and former Pacific Investment Management Co. CEO Douglas Hodge.
The Associated Press contributed to this report. 