Coronavirus mortgage relief is available — here’s what to do if you can’t pay on time
Mortgage refinancing can offer financial breathing room if you've been affected by COVID-19. (iStock)
Continue Reading Below
If you're up to date on your mortgage now, it's important to keep it that way, and talking to your lender can help.
They may have a mortgage relief program in place designed to help borrowers who are struggling. For instance, you may be able to temporarily stop making payments for a set time period.
"Most banks offer some sort of mortgage forbearance plan," said Andrew Helling, a licensed real estate agent and founder of REthority.
If you're considering a refinance loan, do some rate shopping to see how much you could potentially save. Compare 15-year mortgage rates today with 30-year mortgage rates today and calculate your estimated monthly payment for each type of loan to see which one is most affordable for your budget.
A loan modification allows you to renegotiate the terms of your existing home loan, versus refinancing with a new mortgage.
Helling said mortgage modification is usually the most flexible option in a situation like the Coronavirus crisis. "Under a modification, a lender will either spread out payments over future periods or add additional months to the life of the loan."
The federal CARES Act includes a key provision to offer financial relief to homeowners who have federally-backed mortgage loans. The Trump stimulus mortgage guidelines make it possible for you to pause payments to your loan for at least 180 days. You can also request an extension for an additional 180-day forbearance period.
Currently, the CARES Act extends this relief to homeowners with federally backed mortgages, including FHA, VA and USDA loans as well as loans owned by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. If you have a conventional or jumbo mortgage loan that isn't federally backed, you should still connect with your lender to see if they're offering any forbearance or deferment options.
When requesting forbearance under CARES Act guidelines, be prepared to explain to your lender why you can't pay and how long you expect to be unable to pay. Your lender may also ask about your financial situation, including your income, debts, and any assets you have.
If your request for mortgage forbearance is approved, you'll have 180 days without mortgage payments. No fees or penalties apply during this time and you can only be charged the interest you were already scheduled to pay, based on your loan's amortization schedule.
It's worth noting, however, that this is not free money, Helling said. "You'll need to pay back the amount you've deferred, though those terms will be determined by your lender."
Depending on your lender, these payments may be added to the end of your loan term or the mortgage itself may be modified to reflect what's owed. The lender could also require you to pay any missed payments in one lump sum.
A forbearance could offer mortgage relief in the short-term but consider the long-term financial impact. If the payments are added to the end of the loan term, it'll take you that much longer to pay off the home. Having to pay a lump sum could put a strain on your finances if you're scrambling to come up with the cash. And if your mortgage terms are modified, you may end up with a higher monthly payment than what you had before the forbearance took effect.